Where There’s A Will …

Recently, I was invited to inaugurate a college auditorium. Though not large, the auditorium was well planned. After the inauguration, I was shown around the place. To my surprise, there was not even an inch of vacant space anywhere. All the walls were decorated with granite slabs and on every slab was inscribed the donors’ names and the amounts they had donated. There was also a series of photographs on the wall. It all seemed a little odd.
The organizer noticed my expression and explained, ‘Madam, we appealed to our donors for help in this work. Very few people came forward. Then we thought it over and decided to advertise that whoever donated more than Rs 1000 would have their name engraved on a granite slab on the wall. Whoever donated Rs 5000 and above would have their photos displayed on the wall.’
‘What about those people who pay more than Rs 10,000?’ I asked.
‘Their names would be engraved on a separate marble stone and displayed at the entrance itself,’ he replied. ‘Just as we expected, we collected enough money to complete this project. There were even some strange donors who donated Rs 1000 four times so that their names could appear on four slabs on the wall!’
Yes, it is important to remember the person who has donated his hard-earned money, but not to this extent. My mind went back to a great personality who was far ahead of his time: Mariappa, a wealthy merchant from Bangalore, who first thought of doing philanthropic work in 1914. Though he was not educated, he was a great benefactor of poor students. He would provide them with food at his house and also take care of their fees.
He died on 12 March 1914, having written his will barely eight days earlier. In
 
it, he bequeathed a monthly pension of Rs 60 to his wife till her death. The couple did not have children. He also arranged to supply oil and perform pujas in four temples in the city. He then specified that among the needy Hindu students, fifteen Nagaratha Lingayats, fifteen Brahmins and fifteen Hindus from other castes should be provided the facility of free boarding and lodging in Bangalore.
Not much is known about Mariappa’s personal life. Probably, great philanthropists are introverted. They don’t wish the whole world to know about their deeds. On the contrary, they believe that the dana given by the right hand should not be known even to the left hand.
It took almost seven years to liquidate Mariappa’s assets. The money obtained was approximately Rs 1.45 lakh, which was a huge sum in those days. Half the money was spent on buying some land and constructing a hostel on it, while the remainder was kept as a corpus fund in the then newly started Mysore Bank.
B.K. Mariappa Hostel, located on Chamarajapet, III Main, Bangalore, officially started on 1 July 1921 with forty-five poor and needy students from different castes. The Trust had six honorary trustees who were recognized as eminent people in public life.
Recently, the Mariappa Hostel celebrated its eightieth anniversary and also the 120th birth anniversary of its founder. This great philanthropist has helped educate many eminent people who have gone on to become famous in different walks of life. Without the gesture of this generous person, they probably would have faced great difficulty in completing their education.
